Well let's talk more about Polymorphism.
So, Polymorphism simply means many forms.
In the Object Oriented world,
an object can be many things or types.
It can be treated as it's declared type,
it's inherited type,
it's parent's inherited type,
a java.lang.Object,
or any of the interfaces it implements.
I touched on polymorphism in previous videos,
when we implemented the drive and park methods,
on different types of Vehicles.
I'm going to demonstrate this principle in another example,
using the Vehicle classes we created previously.
So, we're going to get back to our inheritance project.
We're going to create a new class.
We're going to call this one TestVehicles.
Okay, so there is the code.
And, obviously, because we're using those other classes,
Vehicle, etc.
I'm assuming that you're in the same project.
If not you'll need to add those classes to this project
or just open up that project file
and paste the code in there.
So, this code that I've added contains a Motorcycle class,
as you can see on screen there,
that extends the abstract Vehicle class,
of course a Vehicle constructor for our super code
in the constructor.
It also supplements its methods drive,
park and make noise.
Moving on down we've also got a TestVehicles class.
You can see its got a main method.
But in addition to that,
scrolling down a bit further,
you can see that the TestVehicle class also has two
static methods: drive and park.
And, each one of those methods takes a Vehicle
as a parameter.
Okay, and back to the main method.
You can see its creating three objects in Auto
and AutomatedAuto
and a Motorcycle.
Now, each of these is ultimately a Vehicle
and can be passed to this class' drive and park methods
that I just showed.
And, these methods simply passed.
Let me get into them again.
I just simply execute the passed objects corresponding
drive or park method,
as well as actually identifying the actual type of object
that was passed to the specific method.
Alright, so let's run the code now.
Okay, and there is the apport.
So, what exactly has been demonstrated here?
Well, firstly, we have demonstrated
that Vehicle published a public interface
that told all consumers,
that any Vehicle,
or subclass of Vehicle,
would have the following behaviour:
drive, park and makeNoise.
We demonstrated that each unique subclass of Vehicle,
could customise its implementation of these methods,
overriding the methods,
and do its own specific thing.
Further, I demonstrated that the print method
in TestVehicles can now execute the print method
on any type of Vehicle passed into the code.
There is no need for the calling code to know anything more
about the specifics of the object passed to it.
We demonstrated that although we passed
a Vehicle to the methods on TestVehicles,
the objects passed were different
and concrete incarnations of Vehcile.
And, finally, we demonstrated that executing
the contractual methods drive park, and makeNoise,
on a parameter object of type Vehicle,
actually executed the overridden methods of the subclass.
So the key to implementing
this rather elegant way of writing code,
is the combination of inheritance and overriding methods,
that are defined on parent classes or interfaces.
So let's look at the differences between overriding methods,
and overloading methods.
So first, overloading methods is done with a single class,
generally to support similar behaviour,
with different sets of parameters or inputs.
Overriding methods is declaring
a method in the current class,
that is the same as a method in a parent class,
either an abstract or concrete class,
and creating its own custom behaviour of the named method.
So, hopefully this table will help you remember the
differences between overloaded and overridden methods.
You can see that the rule there is that
the method must have the same name.
That's true for overloaded methods
and overridden methods.
The method must have the same number of parameters.
Not true for overloaded methods,
but is for overridden methods.
The method must have the same types of parameters
in the same order.
And, names do not matter.
Well, that's false for overloaded methods,
but true for overridden methods.
The method must have the same return type
or a covariant of the type.
And, primitive return types must exactly match.
Well, for overloaded methods,
that's irrelevant in the determination
and it's true for overridden methods.
Methods must have the same access
or less restrictive access.
Well, that's irrelevant in determination
for overloaded methods
and it's true for overridden methods.
And, finally the Throws Clause
is irrelevant in determination for overloaded methods,
but for overridden methods,
it's not required to have a Throws Clause,
but if included,
the exception cannot be wider or less specific.
So, the similarities between and overridden method
and an overloaded method are actually not many.
The methods have the same name as another method,
but that is basically where the similarities end.
An overridden method will have the same name of a method,
defined on a parent class or an interface.
An overloaded method can have the same name as
a method in its own class,
or can overload a method on a parent class or interface.
Overloaded methods have much fewer restrictions,
because they are basically new methods
in the class they are declared in,
that happen to have the same method name as another,
but a different parameter list.
When you override a method,
you're intentionally, one would hope,
replacing or extending method that exists in another class,
either because you want to,
or because you are forced to.
And it is the overridden method's particular signature,
that allows a calling class to be agnostic about
the class that is passed to it.
Alright, with all of that said,
let's finish the video now
and in the next video,
we'll see what this means in code.
See you in the next video.